(:summary    "Extensive outline mode for use alone and with other modes"
 :created    "199112"
 :updated    "2010"
 :license    "GPL-3"
 :provided   (allout)
 :required   ((("cl" cl)
	       ("easymenu" easymenu)
	       ("emacs-core" overlay)
	       ("gnus" pgg pgg-gpg pgg-parse)))
 :keywords   ("languages" "outlines" "wp")
 :homepage   "http://myriadicity.net/Sundry/EmacsAllout"
 :wikipage   "http://www.emacswiki.org/AllOut"
 :commentary "\
Allout outline minor mode provides extensive outline formatting and
and manipulation beyond standard emacs outline mode.  Some features:

 - Classic outline-mode topic-oriented navigation and exposure adjustment
 - Topic-oriented editing including coherent topic and subtopic
   creation, promotion, demotion, cut/paste across depths, etc.
 - Incremental search with dynamic exposure and reconcealment of text
 - Customizable bullet format -- enables programming-language specific
   outlining, for code-folding editing.  (Allout code itself is to try it;
   formatted as an outline -- do ESC-x eval-buffer in allout.el; but
   emacs local file variables need to be enabled when the
   file was visited -- see `enable-local-variables'.)
 - Configurable per-file initial exposure settings
 - Symmetric-key and key-pair topic encryption, plus symmetric passphrase
   mnemonic support, with verification against an established passphrase
   (using a stashed encrypted dummy string) and user-supplied hint
   maintenance.  (See allout-toggle-current-subtree-encryption docstring.
   Currently only GnuPG encryption is supported, and integration
   with gpg-agent is not yet implemented.)
 - Automatic topic-number maintenance
 - \"Hot-spot\" operation, for single-keystroke maneuvering and
   exposure control (see the allout-mode docstring)
 - Easy rendering of exposed portions into numbered, latex, indented, etc
   outline styles
 - Careful attention to whitespace -- enabling blank lines between items
   and maintenance of hanging indentation (in paragraph auto-fill and
   across topic promotion and demotion) of topic bodies consistent with
   indentation of their topic header.

and more.

See the `allout-mode' function's docstring for an introduction to the
mode.

The latest development version and helpful notes are available at
http://myriadicity.net/Sundry/EmacsAllout .

The outline menubar additions provide quick reference to many of
the features, and see the docstring of the variable `allout-init'
for instructions on priming your Emacs session for automatic
activation of allout-mode.

See the docstring of the variables `allout-layout' and
`allout-auto-activation' for details on automatic activation of
`allout-mode' as a minor mode.  (It has changed since allout
3.x, for those of you that depend on the old method.)

Note -- the lines beginning with `;;;_' are outline topic headers.
       Just `ESC-x eval-buffer' to give it a whirl.

ken manheimer (ken dot manheimer at gmail dot com)")
