(:summary    "Look up references in bibliography files"
 :created    "1992"
 :updated    "2011"
 :license    "GPL-3"
 :authors    (("Ashwin Ram" . "ashwin@cc.gatech.edu"))
 :maintainer ("Gernot Heiser" . "gernot@acm.org")
 :adapted-by ("ESR")
 :provided   (refer)
 :keywords   (bib)
 :commentary "\
Functions to look up references in bibliography files given lists of
keywords, similar to refer(1).  I don't use tags since tags on .bib files
only picks up the cite key, where as refer-find-entry looks for occurrences
of keywords anywhere in the bibliography entry.

To use:
     (autoload 'refer-find-entry \"refer\" nil t)
or   (require 'refer)

     To look for an article by Knuth about semaphores:
         Invoke refer-find-entry, then in response to the Keywords: prompt,
         say: Knuth semaphores (a blank-separated list of keywords to be used
         as search strings).

     To continue the previous search, i.e., to search for the next occurrence
     of the keywords, use refer-find-next-entry, or invoke refer-find-entry
     with a prefix argument.

	Once you've found the entry you want to reference, invoke
	refer-yank-key to insert it at point in the current buffer
	(typically as the argument of a \\cite{} command).

	I use (define-key tex-mode-map    \"\\C-c\\C-y\"  'refer-yank-key)
	to bind this often-used function to a key in (la)tex-mode.

     If the list of bibliography files changes, reinitialize the variable
     refer-bib-files.

To customize:
     See variables refer-bib-files, refer-cache-bib-files and
     refer-bib-files-regexp.  By default, these are set up so that refer
     looks for the keywords you specify in all the .bib files in the current
     directory.

     The only assumption I make about bib files is that they contain a bunch
     of entries, one to a paragraph.  refer-find-entry searches paragraph by
     paragraph, looking for a paragraph containing all the keywords
     specified.  So you should be able to use pretty much any bib file with
     this code.  If your bib file does not use paragraphs to separate
     entries, try setting the paragraph-start/separate variables, or changing
     the (forward-paragraph 1) call in refer-find-entry-in-file.")
