(:summary    "SNMP & SNMPv2 MIB major mode"
 :created    "1995"
 :updated    "2011"
 :license    "GPL-3"
 :authors    (("Paul D. Smith"))
 :maintainer ("Paul D. Smith")
 :provided   (snmp-mode)
 :required   ((("cl" cl)
	       ("imenu" imenu)
	       ("tempo" tempo)))
 :keywords   ("data")
 :homepage   "http://www.hardakers.net/elisp"
 :commentary "\
INTRODUCTION
------------
This package provides a major mode for editing SNMP MIBs.  It
provides all the modern Emacs 19 bells and whistles: default
fontification via font-lock, imenu search functions, etc.

SNMP mode also uses tempo, a textual boilerplate insertion package
distributed with Emacs, to add in boilerplate SNMP MIB structures.
See tempo.el for more details about tempo.

If you want to change or add new tempo templates, use the tempo tag
list `snmp-tempo-tags' (or `snmpv2-tempo-tags'): this list is
automatically installed when snmp-mode (or snmpv2-mode) is entered.

The SNMPv2 mode in this version has been enhanced thanks to popular
demand.

I'm very interested in new tempo macros for both v1 and v2, and any
other suggestions for enhancements (different syntax table items, new
keybindings, etc.)


USAGE
-----
Mostly, use it as you would any other mode.  There's a very
simplistic auto-indent feature; hopefully it'll help more than get in
your way.  For the most part it tries to indent to the same level as
the previous line.  It will try to recognize some very simple tokens
on the previous line that tell it to use extra indent or outdent.

Templates
---------
To use the Tempo templates, type the Tempo tag (or a unique prefix)
and use C-c C-i (C-c TAB) to complete it; if you don't have
tempo-interactive set to nil it will ask you to fill in values.
Fields with predefined values (SYNTAX, STATUS, etc.) will do
completing-reads on a list of valid values; use the normal SPC or TAB
to complete.

Currently the following templates are available:

 objectType -- Defines an OBJECT-TYPE macro.

 tableType  -- Defines both a Table and Entry OBJECT-TYPE, and a
               SEQUENCE for the ASN.1 Entry definition.

Once the template is done, you can use C-cC-f and C-cC-b to move back
and forth between the Tempo sequence points to fill in the rest of
the information.

Font Lock
------------

If you want font-lock in your MIB buffers, add this:

 (add-hook 'snmp-common-mode-hook 'turn-on-font-lock)

Enabling global-font-lock-mode is also sufficient.")
