(:summary    "Interface to International Ispell Versions 3.1 and 3.2"
 :created    "1994"
 :updated    "2003"
 :license    "GPL-2"
 :authors    (("Ken Stevens" . "k.stevens@ieee.org"))
 :maintainer ("Ken Stevens" . "k.stevens@ieee.org")
 :provided   (ispell)
 :required   ((("ehelp" ehelp)))
 :keywords   ("unix" "wp")
 :homepage   "http://kdstevens.com/~stevens/ispell-page.html"
 :wikipage   "http://www.emacswiki.org/InteractiveSpell"
 :commentary "\
INSTRUCTIONS

  This code contains a section of user-settable variables that you
should inspect prior to installation.  Look past the end of the history
list.  Set them up for your locale and the preferences of the majority
of the users.  Otherwise the users may need to set a number of variables
themselves.
  You particularly may want to change the default dictionary for your
country and language.
  Most dictionary changes should be made in this file so all users can
enjoy them.  Local or modified dictionaries are supported in your .emacs
file.  Modify the variable `ispell-local-dictionary-alist' to include
these dictionaries, and they will be installed when ispell.el is loaded.

 Depending on the mail system you use, you may want to include these:
 (add-hook 'news-inews-hook 'ispell-message)
 (add-hook 'mail-send-hook  'ispell-message)
 (add-hook 'mh-before-send-letter-hook 'ispell-message)

  Ispell has a TeX parser and a nroff parser (the default).
The parsing is controlled by the variable ispell-parser.  Currently
it is just a \"toggle\" between TeX and nroff, but if more parsers are
added it will be updated.  See the variable description for more info.


TABLE OF CONTENTS

  ispell-word
  ispell-region
  ispell-buffer
  ispell-message
  ispell-comments-and-strings
  ispell-continue
  ispell-complete-word
  ispell-complete-word-interior-frag
  ispell-change-dictionary
  ispell-kill-ispell
  ispell-pdict-save
  ispell-skip-region-alist

Commands in ispell-region:
Character replacement: Replace word with choice.  May query-replace.
` ': Accept word this time.
`i': Accept word and insert into private dictionary.
`a': Accept word for this session.
`A': Accept word and place in buffer-local dictionary.
`r': Replace word with typed-in value.  Rechecked.
`R': Replace word with typed-in value. Query-replaced in buffer. Rechecked.
`?': Show these commands
`x': Exit spelling buffer.  Move cursor to original point.
`X': Exit spelling buffer.  Leaves cursor at the current point, and permits
     the check to be completed later.
`q': Quit spelling session (Kills ispell process).
`l': Look up typed-in replacement in alternate dictionary.  Wildcards okay.
`u': Like `i', but the word is lower-cased first.
`m': Place entered value in personal dictionary, then recheck current word.
`C-l': redraws screen
`C-r': recursive edit
`C-z': suspend emacs or iconify frame

Buffer-Local features:
There are a number of buffer-local features that can be used to customize
 ispell for the current buffer.  This includes language dictionaries,
 personal dictionaries, parsing, and local word spellings.  Each of these
 local customizations are done either through local variables, or by
 including the keyword and argument(s) at the end of the buffer (usually
 prefixed by the comment characters).  See the end of this file for
 examples.  The local keywords and variables are:

 ispell-dictionary-keyword   language-dictionary
     uses local variable ispell-local-dictionary
 ispell-pdict-keyword        personal-dictionary
     uses local variable ispell-local-pdict
 ispell-parsing-keyword      mode-arg extended-char-arg
 ispell-words-keyword        any number of local word spellings

Region skipping:
 Place new regular expression definitions of regions you prefer not to
 spell check in `ispell-skip-region-alist'.  Mode-dependent features can
 be added to latex by modifying `ispell-tex-skip-alists'.
 `ispell-message' contains some custom skipping code for e-mail messages.

BUGS:
 Need a way to select between different character mappings without separate
   dictionary entries.
 Multi-byte characters if not defined by current dictionary may result in the
   evil \"misalignment error\" in some versions of MULE emacs.
 On some versions of emacs, growing the minibuffer fails.
   see `ispell-help-in-bufferp'.
 Recursive edits (?C-r or ?R) inside a keyboard text replacement check (?r)
   can cause misalignment errors.

HISTORY

Modifications made in latest versions:

Revision 3.7 2003/09/22 13:24:34	kss
Highly improved region shipping and selection.
User defined library directory locations now supported.
Selection of preferred binary [ai]spell possible.
Updated `framepop' support.

Revision 3.6 2003/01/07 12:32:44	kss
Removed extra -d LIB in dictionary defs. (Pavel Janik)
Filtered process calls with duplicate dictionary entries.
Fixed bug where message-text-end is inside a mime skipped region.
Minor fixes to get ispell menus right in XEmacs
Fixed skip regexp so it doesn't match stuff like `/.\\w'.
Detecting dictionary change not working.  Fixed.  kss
function `ispell-change-dictionary' now only completes valid dicts.

Revision 3.5 2001/7/11 18:43:57	kss
Added fix for aspell to work in XEmacs (ispell-check-version).
Added Portuguese dictionary definition.
New feature: MIME mail message support, Fcc support.
Bug fix: retain comment syntax on lines with region skipping. (TeX $ bug...)
Improved allocation for graphic mode lines.  (Miles Bader)
Support -v flag for old versions of aspell.  (Eli Zaretskii)
Clear minibuffer on ^G from ispell-help (Tak Ota)

Revision 3.4 2000/8/4 09:41:50	kss
Support new color display functions.
Fixed misalignment offset bug when replacing a string after a shift made.
Set to standard Author/Maintainer heading,
ensure localwords lists are separated from the text by newline. (Dave Love)
Added dictionary definition for Italian (William Deakin)
HTML region skipping greatly improved. (Chuck D. Phillips)
improved menus.  Fixed regexp matching http/email addresses.
one arg always for xemacs sleep-for (gunnar Evermann)
support for synchronous processes (Eli Zaretskii)

Revision 3.3  1999/11/29 11:38:34     kss
Only word replacements entered in from the keyboard are rechecked.
This fixes a bug in tex parsing and misalignment.
Exceptions exist for recursive edit and query-replace, with tex error
condition tested.  Recursive editing improved.
XEmacs repair for when `enable-multibyte-characters' defined - Didier Verna.
ispell-help fixed for XEmacs.  Choices minibuffer now displayed in XEmacs.
Only list valid dictionaries in Spell menu.  Russian dictionary doesn't allow
run-together words, and uses koi8-r font.  Don't skip text in html <TT>
fonts.

Revision 3.2  1999/5/7 14:25:14	kss
Accept ispell versions 3.X.Y where X>=1
fine tuned latex region skipping.  Fixed bug in ispell-word that did not
point in right place on words < 2 chars.  Simplified ispell-minor-mode.
Fixed bug in TeX parsing when math commands are in the comments.
Removed calls to `when' macro.

Revision 3.1  1998/12/1 13:21:52	kss
Improved and fixed customize support.
Improved and fixed comments in variables and messages.
A coding system is now required for all languages.
casechars improved for castellano, castellano8, and norsk dictionaries.
Dictionary norsk7-tex removed.  Dictionary polish added.
Dictionaries redefined at load-time to support dictionary changes.
Menu redefined at load time to support dictionary changes.
ispell-check-version added as an alias for `check-ispell-version'.
Spelling suggestions returned in order generated by ispell.
Small bug fixed in matching ispell error messages.
Robustness added to ensure `case-fold-search' doesn't get redefined.
Fixed bug that didn't respect case of word in `ispell-complete-word'.
Multibyte character coding support added for process interactions.
Ensure ispell process has terminated before starting new process.
 This can otherwise confuse process filters and hang ispell.
Improved skipping support for SGML.
Fixed bug using ^M rather than \\r in `ispell-minor-check'.
Improved message reference matching in `ispell-message'.
Fixed bug in returning to nroff mode from tex mode.")
