(:summary    "ERP(Enterprise Ressource Planning) in plain text. "
 :repository (git . "git://github.com/tj64/erp-mode.git")
 :created    "20110625"
 :updated    "20110625"
 :license    "GPL-3"
 :authors    (("Thorsten" . "tj@data-driven.de"))
 :maintainer ("Thorsten" . "tj@data-driven.de")
 :provided   (erp-acc erp-crm erp-hrm erp-mode erp-op erp-pd erp-sp erp-stm)
 :required   ((("emacs" easymenu)
	       (nil erp-exp erp-mobile)))
 :homepage   "https://github.com/tj64/erp-mode"
 :commentary "\
ERP-mode for Emacs (Enterprise Ressource Planning) 

Emacs has been used by programmers, scientists, freelancers and
other users as a feature-rich personnal ressource planning tool for
many years now. In fact, the facilities provided for communication
(e.g. Gnus), organisation (e.g. Org), writing, reporting and
presentations (e.g. LaTex, Org-babel), calculations (e.g. Calc,
Org-tables) as well as accounting (e.g. Ledger) are often
incredibly powerfull and efficient to use. In combination with a
version control system like e.g. GIT, this text-based ressource
planning environment can be easily turned into a sophisticated
collaborative system for groups of users that keeps track of every
single change of the shared text-files in a distributed fast
database (thats what GIT is). 

ERP-software has long been one of the last big market segments
entirely dominated by proprietary software of leading software
companies. This changed in the last years with the appearance of
several Open-Source ERP-Software projects. Often, there is a huge
gap between marketing and real software-quality in these projects,
and the Open-Source philosophy is quickly abandoned once the
intensive marketing resulted in commercial success for the company
backing the project.

The aim of erp-mode is to make the power of Emacs ressource
planning tools more accessible to average users of ERP-software,
enabling the Emacs power-users and programmers to use Emacs as a
license free and highly customizable software in
ERP-consulting. Therefore, erp-mode is more concerned with hiding
already available functionality (and the resulting complexity)
rather than with adding new functionality. It should be an
extremely simple yet efficient frontend for the uninitialized
ERP-User, while at the same time providing all the Emacs power for
the ERP-Integrator and -Programmer (under the hood).


Installation:

Put erp.el to your load-path.
The load-path is usually ~/elisp/.
It's set in your ~/.emacs like this:
(add-to-list 'load-path (expand-file-name \"~/elisp\"))

And the following to your ~/.emacs startup file.

(require 'erp-mode)

No need more.")
