(:summary    "Play chess in Emacs"
 :repository (git . "git://github.com/jwiegley/emacs-chess.git")
 :created    "2001"
 :updated    "2001"
 :license    "GPL-2"
 :authors    (("John Wiegley" . "johnw@gnu.org"))
 :maintainer ("Mario Lang" . "mlang@delysid.org")
 :provided   (chess chess-ai chess-algebraic chess-announce chess-autosave chess-chat chess-clock chess-common chess-crafty chess-database chess-display chess-eco chess-engine chess-epd chess-fen chess-file chess-game chess-german chess-gnuchess chess-ics chess-ics1 chess-ics2 chess-images chess-input chess-irc chess-kibitz chess-link chess-log chess-maint chess-message chess-module chess-network chess-none chess-pgn chess-phalanx chess-plain chess-ply chess-pos chess-puzzle chess-random chess-scid chess-sjeng chess-sound chess-transport chess-tutorial chess-ucb chess-var)
 :required   ((("cl" cl)
	       ("comint" comint)
	       ("emacs-core" autoload sort)
	       ("rx" rx))
	      (("pcomplete" pcomplete)))
 :keywords   (games)
 :homepage   "http://www.newartisans.com/software/emacs-chess.html"
 :wikipage   "http://www.emacswiki.org/ChessMode"
 :commentary "\
Welcome to Emacs Chess, a chess playing module for GNU Emacs.

This program will not play chess against you; it is not a chess
computer.  It can use a chess computer, however, to simulate your
opponent's moves.  This is decided when you choose your opponent.
You must, of course, have that chess computer installed.  See the
top of chess-player.el for more information.

To just get a chessboard up, put the following in your .emacs file:

  (add-to-list 'load-path \"<the path to Emacs Chess>\")

  (autoload 'chess \"chess\" \"Play a game of chess\" t)

Now you can type `M-x chess', and play chess against anyone else in
the room with you, without having to install anything more.

Once this is working, the next thing to do is to customize
`chess-use-modules'.  This is a list of functionality modules used
by chess.el to provide its functionality.  You can enable or
disable modules so that Emacs Chess better suites your tastes.
Those modules in turn often have configuration variables, and
appropriate documentation at the top of the related file.

Emacs Chess is designed in a highly modular fashion, using loosely
coupled modules that respond to events on the chess board.  This
makes it very easy for programmers to add their own types of
displays, opponents, analysis programs, etc.  See the documentation
in chess-module.el to learn more.

There is no documentation for this program other than what exists
in the source files.  This is because the source files aim at being
self documenting, and as chess is such a simple game, most chess
players aren't going to need to know much about this program in
particular.

However, most people will probably be interested in reading the top
of chess-display.el and chess-pgn.el, which describe the user
interface commands available in each of those buffer types.")
