(:summary    "Hooks and minor mode to avoid modifying files"
 :created    "20051114"
 :updated    "2005"
 :license    "GPL-2"
 :authors    (("Dave Love" . "fx@gnu.org"))
 :maintainer ("Dave Love" . "fx@gnu.org")
 :provided   (protect-files)
 :keywords   ("tools")
 :homepage   "http://www.loveshack.ukfsn.org/emacs"
 :commentary "\
This is a mechanism for preventing at least accidental modification
of files matching defined patterns (see `protect-files-alist').  It
is assumed that modifying such files causes trouble.  An example is
corruption of a darcs revision control system repository, if you
edit or create files in the _darcs/current directory.

Functions are defined for use on hooks to try to prevent such
problems.  When you find such a file, the buffer is made read-only,
with backups and autosave turned off on the assumption that writing
anything into its directory is bad news.  You get an error if you
try to write a file with a matching name.

How to use this is complicated by the fact that the appropriate
hook mechanisms changed in the unreleased (at time of writing)
Emacs 22 code base.  That might be relevant should it ever get
released [:-(] with the hooks unchanged -- see below.  To avoid
such issues, use the global minor mode `protect-files-mode'.
[monnier says that the old hook names should still work, though
presumably there's no guarantee they will continue to.]

To start with, put this file somewhere on your `load-path',
byte-compile it, and to your .emacs add:

   (require 'protect-files)

once you've loaded it, you can invoke the command
`protect-files-mode', or customize the option of that name.
[Compiling is required to have Custom do the right thing with the
minor mode.]

If for some reason you don't want to use Custom, in Emacs 21 use:

   (add-hook 'find-file-hooks 'protect-files-check-find)
   (add-hook 'write-file-hooks 'protect-files-check-write)

and in Emacs 22:

   (add-hook 'find-file-hook 'protect-files-check-find)
   (add-hook 'before-save-hook 'protect-files-check-write)

Confused?  Just use the minor mode.

If you're not using Emacs 21 or later (e.g. XEmacs), this may not
all work, but you can probably add to the hooks explicitly.

[Fixme:  Maybe this is better done with file-name handlers?]")
