(:summary    "A major mode for editing screenplay files"
 :created    "2000"
 :updated    "2004"
 :license    "GPL-2"
 :authors    (("V. L. Simpson" . "vls@freeshell.org"))
 :maintainer ("V. L. Simpson" . "vls@freeshell.org")
 :provided   (screenplay)
 :required   ((("reporter" reporter)))
 :homepage   "http://www.nongnu.org/screenplay"
 :wikipage   "ScreenPlay"
 :commentary "\
Massive complete start-over re-write back-to-the-drawing-board
start-from-square-one bottom-of-the-barrel-looking-up release.

Screenplay mode is designed as a submission draft editor.  Which
means that it'll make something you can send to Speilberg to be
rejected as unsuitable by some schmuck first reader.

Latest version is always available at:
http://www.nongnu.org/screenplay/files/screenplay.el
http://savannah.nongnu.org/cvs/?group=screenplay

Installing and using screenplay.el:
Put this file somewhere on your emacs load-path.
Load the file with 'load-libray RET screenplay RET'.
Open up your Academy Award Winner(TM), M-x screenplay-mode and have
at it.
The TAB and RET keys let you insert and edit the basic screenplay
elements: scene headings; action blocks; dialog blocks.

TAB-RET asks for and inserts a scene heading, e.g., INT. HOUSE -- DAY.

TAB-TAB-RET moves into action block mode, e.g., Describing the
house exploding.

TAB-TAB-TAB-RET does the dialog thing, e.g.,
        BOB
  Gee, the house just
  exploded.

To edit a pre-existing screenplay element, place cursor within that
element and execute the appropriate command with a prefix argument:
.e.g., C-u TAB-TAB RET will reset left and right margins as needed
for an action block.

Bugs and caveats:

Don't enter any spurious newlines when finished editing any one
particular element.  Just hit the key combo for the next thing you
want to do, e.g., INT. HOUSE -- DAY(Type TAB-TAB-RET to go into an
action block.


Remember kiddies:
\"Nobody knows anything\" -- William Goldman _Adventures in the Screentrade_

TODO:  Better documentation.  
Implement project handling:  Revision control, state control, etc.
Make the editing commands work from any point within a screenplay
element instead of end-of-line only.

Get all hard coded values into def{custom,var}'s

Implement code for wrylies since I keep getting patches for them.


Write a frikkin' screenplay instead of procrastinating with this
thing.")
