(:summary    "Update BBDB records very quietly and automatically"
 :created    "20001026"
 :updated    "2000"
 :license    "GPL-2"
 :authors    (("Nix"))
 :maintainer ("Nix")
 :provided   (bbdb-hidden-update)
 :required   ((("bbdb" bbdb)
	       ("emacs" advice)))
 :keywords   (mail news)
 :commentary "\
The `bbdb-notice-hook' allows things to happen whenver a BBDB record
is noticed; but if you try to record that fact in the BBDB record itself,
you have the problem that the BBDB record is marked as changed in the
`bbdb-changed-records' list, and that the modification itself triggers
the `bbdb-change-hook', which by default calls `bbdb-timestamp-hook',
leading to the BBDB's last-modified timestamp being updated *every
single time* the record is noticed, and to `bbdb-changed' listing
every record you've seen since the database was last saved; not an
especially useful function.

(Yes, the docstring for `bbdb-change-hook' states that it is not called
for modifications made within the `bbdb-notice-hook'. This is incorrect;
maybe it is a bug.)

This file fixes this, providing the ability to have some field that is
automatically updated whenever a record is noticed, without making a fuss
about it, recording it as changed, or calling `bbdb-change-hook' or
`bbdb-after-change-hook'. (The .bbdb file is still marked as modified, so
that it will still be saved.)

This facility should be integrated --- in a neater and less fragile form ---
into BBDB itself; but until it is, this file exists to provide the same
facilities.

This will probably only work with version 2.00 of the BBDB, and may well
only work with version 2.00.06.

To use:

Call the function `bbdb-hidden-update-initialize' to begin hidden
updating. Add the names of functions to call to do the updating to the
`bbdb-hidden-update-functions' alist. They get passed the record to
use.

If you want to do some arbitrary thing without running the BBDB
change hooks (for instance, to avoid timestamp changes), you can
use the `with-bbdb-change-hooks-suppressed' macro.

If you just want to work around the buglet with `bbdb-notice-hook',
you just need to load the file; there is no need to run
`bbdb-hidden-update-initialize' unless you want to use
`bbdb-hidden-update-functions' in some way.

To do:

Parts of this code are very brittle, and highly dependent on BBDB version
(because of all the advisements). This will remain true if and until code
doing what this does is folded into the BBDB. (Note that this code should
*not* be folded in; it jumps through lots of hoops to avoid changing the
BBDB's code, and all these hoops can be thrown away.)

This might not work with GNU Emacs; I don't currently have a copy so it is
hard to test it there, and there may be unintentional dependencies on
XEmacs.

If you want to use this on GNU Emacs, and it doesn't work, please tell me
what is missing or broken for GNU Emacs support so I can fix it, as I
would like it to work there as well.

Requirements:")
