(:summary    "Mouse clickable shortcut buttons for the Sunrise Commander File Manager"
 :created    "20080611"
 :updated    "2010"
 :license    "GPL-3"
 :authors    (("José Alfredo Romero L." . "escherdragon@gmail.com"))
 :maintainer ("José Alfredo Romero L." . "escherdragon@gmail.com")
 :provided   (sunrise-x-buttons)
 :required   ((("emacs" cl cus-edit)
	       ("sunrise-commander" sunrise-commander)))
 :keywords   ("sunrise" "commander" "files" "manager" "extension" "shortcuts" "buttons")
 :commentary "\
Here  is  a  small extension that may be of help to new users who want to get
acquainted fast with  the  most  frequent  functions  found  in  the  Sunrise
Commander  and  their  keybindings.  Once installed, it displays a panel with
mouse clickable buttons that show some of the most useful  actions  performed
by  Sunrise and their respective bindings in the bottom window (a.k.a. viewer
window here) every time the main panels are invoked. You can execute  any  of
these  functions  by  clicking  the appropriate button, but the extension was
conceived more as a simple cheat sheet (a very, very limited one, as you  can
easily  learn  by pressing the last button, labeled \"More...\") than as a real
interface to Sunrise and Dired functions. Eventually, if you like  this  kind
of interaction with the program you can add your own commands to the list and
let this extension manage the creation and layout of the buttons for you.

This is version 1 $Rev: 315 $ of the Sunrise Commander Buttons Extension.

It  was  written  on GNU Emacs 23 on Linux, and tested on GNU Emacs 22 and 23
for Linux and on EmacsW32 (version 22) for  Windows.

Installation and Usage:

1) Put this file somewhere in your emacs load-path.

2)  Add  a (require 'sunrise-x-buttons) to your .emacs file, preferably right
after (require 'sunrise-commander).

3) Evaluate the new expression, or reload your .emacs file, or restart emacs.

That's it - the next time you activate Sunrise you'll see a nice button panel
in the viewer window.")
