(:summary    "A marriage between iswitchb and isearch"
 :created    "20040416"
 :updated    "2011"
 :license    "GPL-3"
 :authors    (("John Wiegley" . "johnw@gnu.org"))
 :maintainer ("FSF")
 :provided   (isearchb)
 :required   ((("iswitchb" iswitchb)))
 :keywords   (lisp)
 :commentary "\
This module allows you to switch to buffers even faster than with
iswitchb!  It is not intended to replace it, however, as it works
well only with buffers whose names don't typically overlap.  You'll
have to try it first, and see how your mileage varies.

The first way to use isearchb is by holding down a modifier key, in
which case every letter you type while holding it searches for any
buffer matching what you're typing (using the same ordering scheme
employed by iswitchb).  To use it this way, add to your .emacs:

  (isearchb-set-keybindings 'super)  ; s-x s-y s-z now finds \"xyz\"

The other way is by using a command that puts you into \"search\"
mode, just like with isearch.  I use C-z for this.  The binding in
my .emacs looks like:

  (define-key global-map [(control ?z)] 'isearchb-activate)

Now, after pressing C-z (for example), each self-inserting
character thereafter will search for a buffer containing those
characters.  For instance, typing \"C-z xyz\" will switch to the
first buffer containing \"xyz\".  Once you press a non-self-inserting
character (such as any control key sequence), the search will end.

C-z after C-z toggles between the previously selected buffer and
the current one.

C-g aborts the search and returns you to your original buffer.

TAB, after typing in a few characters (after C-z), will jump into
iswitchb, using the prefix you've typed so far.  This is handy when
you realize that isearchb is not powerful enough to find the buffer
you're looking for.

C-s and C-r move forward and backward in the buffer list.  If
`isearchb-show-completions' is non-nil (the default), the list of
possible completions is shown in the minibuffer.

If `isearchb-idle-timeout' is set to a number, isearchb will quit
after that many seconds of idle time.  I recommend trying it set to
one or two seconds.  Then, if you switch to a buffer and wait for
that amount of time, you can start typing without manually exiting
isearchb.

TODO:
  C-z C-z is broken
  killing iswitchb.el and then trying to switch back is broken
  make sure TAB isn't broken")
