(:summary    "Emacs lisp extensions for history lists"
 :created    "1999"
 :updated    "1999"
 :license    "GPL-2"
 :authors    (("Tom Breton" . "tehom@localhost"))
 :maintainer ("Tom Breton" . "tehom@localhost")
 :provided   (tehom-2)
 :keywords   ("extensions")
 :homepage   "www.panix.com/~tehom"
 :commentary "\
This code is to make history lists more generally available.  It is
mostly modified from isearch.el

tehom-define-history-{edit,motion,update} are macros that define
functions that move around in a history list.  See the examples at
the end of this file, which mirror isearch.el's history functions.

To use the history functions, you must supply several
application-specific callbacks:

With proper callbacks and local variables, these history functions
can cooperate with the form-editing in tehom-1.  See tehom-search.el
for an example.

The callbacks ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;

get-ring-code: Code that gives your history list.  It can be a
function, a defsubst, a variable, or a literal.  EG,
tehom-isearch-get-ring.

get-sym-code: Code that gives the *symbol* that corresponds to the
current *position* in your history list.  It can be a function, a
variable, or a literal. EG, tehom-isearch-get-position-sym

insert-func: A function taking an object from your history list,
that inserts a given object into \"the place you edit it in\",
(whatever that may be in your application) .  Not called if the
history list is empty.  EG, tehom-isearch-insert-string

set-func: A function taking an object from your history list, that
sets \"the current thing\" (whatever that may be) to that object.  Not
called if the history list is empty.  EG, tehom-isearch-set-string

update-func: Code to execute if history editing is called at all,
regardless of whether the history list is empty.  EG,
tehom-isearch-do-update

my-ring:  Your history list.  Unlike get-ring-code, it can only be
an object.  EG, regexp-search-ring

my-ring-max: A number, the maximum number of items allowed in your
history list.  EG, regexp-search-ring-max

my-compare-func: A function that compares objects of the type that
are in your history list.  Used by tehom-define-history-update to
determine whether a new object should be stored on the history
list.  EG, 'string= or 'equal")
