(:summary    "Extensions to GNU gettext's `po-mode.el'"
 :created    "20060622"
 :updated    "20060709"
 :license    "GPL-2"
 :authors    (("Gaute Hvoslef Kvalnes" . "gaute@verdsveven.com"))
 :maintainer ("Gaute Hvoslef Kvalnes" . "gaute@verdsveven.com")
 :provided   (po-mode+)
 :required   ((("cl" cl)
	       ("po-mode" po-mode)))
 :keywords   (gettext)
 :commentary "\
This package is an extension to `po-mode.el', GNU Gettext's major
mode for editing PO files. It is made for po-mode version 2.01.

Although written, tested and used in Emacs 22.x, po-mode+ might
work in other versions too.

You may adjust some variables, below, by defining them in your
`.emacs' file, either directly or through command 'M-x customize'.

Installation:

 Put this file where Emacs can find it, and place the following in
 your `~/.emacs':

 (autoload 'po-mode \"po-mode+\"
  \"Major mode for translators to edit PO files\" t)

 Make sure `po-mode.el' is available for Emacs, but don't load it
 explicitly.

Extensions to po-mode:

 po-mode+ 0.1, 0.2

 `po-update-header' is a generalization of the function that
 updates 'PO-Revision-Date'. It now updates 'Last-Translator',
 'Language-Team' and 'X-Generator' too. `po-translator',
 `po-language-team' and `po-x-generator' are customizable
 variables. The function will insert fields that don't already
 exist.

 `po-msgid-to-msgstr' is changed so that it ignores KDE-style
 context comments: The first line begins with '_:' and ends with
 '\\n'. These should never appear in the translation.

 `po-subedit-insert-next-tag' and `po-subedit-insert-next-arg' are
 useful functions taken from KBabel. Since (XML) tags and arguments
 normally should be kept verbatim in the translation, it's nice to
 have an easy way to insert them. C-c C-t inserts the next tag,
 while C-c C-a inserts the next argument.

 `po-auto-select-mode' provides two alternative workflows.
 po-mode's original behaviour is invoked by setting this variable
 to 'by-type, so that `po-auto-select' (SPC) first cycles through
 the untranslated entries before starting on the fuzzy ones. Since
 I find it more convenient to translate both untranslated and fuzzy
 entries in the same run, I prefer 'by-order instead.

 `po-select-entry-number' is bound to 'g'. It asks for an entry
 number and selects it.

 po-mode+ 0.3

 `po-find-msg' (C-c C-m) searches for a message containing a
 string. The pattern in `po-ignore-in-search' defines characters to
 ignore.  This is useful for accelerators, which are typically
 marked by '&' or '~'.

 `po-find-msgstr' (C-c C-s) searches for a message where the msgstr
 contains a string. The pattern in `po-ignore-in-search' defines
 characters to ignore.

 `po-find-msgid' (C-c C-i) searches for a message where the msgid
 contains a string. The pattern in `po-ignore-in-search' defines
 characters to ignore.

 `po-replace-in-msgstrs' (C-c C-r) is a function that replaces a
 string with another in all the msgstrs from the current point to
 the end of the file.

 po-mode+ 0.4

 If `longlines-mode' is available, it will be used for linewrapping
 in the subedit buffer.

 Lookup

   There were some unimplemented \"lexicography\" functions in
   po-mode, probably intended for dictionary lookups. (They've been
   left unimplemented for years, as far as I can tell.)  I adapted
   these to my purpose: A generic lookup feature for auxiliary
   files, translation memories, dictionaries, etc. The search
   result is displayed in `po-lookup-buffer', which is suggested to
   be left open in a separate frame. (`po-setup-lookup-frame' will
   set up such a frame.)

   So far, only the auxiliary search is implemented. It resembles
   KBabel's auxiliary feature, but is more flexible when it comes
   to picking the right file. It partly duplicates po-mode's
   existing auxiliary feature, but I find it more convenient to
   work with.

   (The lookup features are still very much a work in progress.)

   `po-lookup' (l) looks up the current msgid using the selected
   lookup method.

   `po-copy-from-lookup' (L) copies the selected lookup result to
   the current entry. `po-subedit-copy-from-lookup' (C-c C-l) does
   the same thing while editing a message.

   `po-edit-lookup-entry' (M-l) opens a buffer where you can edit
   the lookup result, if that is possible.

   `po-select-lookup-method' (M-L) will cycle between the lookup
   methods as soon as I implement more than just auxiliary search.

Bugfixes to po-mode:

 The fuzzy counter is fixed. Entries that are fuzzy at the same
 time as being untranslated or obsolete were incorrectly counted as
 both fuzzy and untranslated or obsolete. These should not be
 counted as fuzzy. This change makes po-mode agree with
 msgfmt. (I've never seen fuzzy+untranslated entries, but a FIXME
 comment in the source code warned against it. Fuzzy+obsolete
 entries happens all the time, at least in the projects I work on.)

Bugs introduced:

 The customizable variable `po-auto-replace-revision-date' is now
 meaningless, being replaced by the more general
 `po-auto-update-header'. I don't know how to remove it without
 editing `po-mode.el'. Perhaps it should be kept, made into a
 non-customizable variable? The way I do it now overrides the old
 preference.

 `po-mode-version' is probably not as nice in XEmacs.


This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with GNU Emacs; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to the
Free Software Foundation, 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.")
