(:summary    "Tabs for the Sunrise Commander File Manager"
 :created    "20091024"
 :updated    "2010"
 :license    "GPL-3"
 :authors    (("José Alfredo Romero L." . "escherdragon@gmail.com"))
 :maintainer ("José Alfredo Romero L." . "escherdragon@gmail.com")
 :provided   (sunrise-x-tabs)
 :required   ((("emacs" desktop)
	       ("sunrise-commander" sunrise-commander)))
 :keywords   ("sunrise" "commander" "files" "manager" "tabs" "minor" "mode")
 :commentary "\
This  extension brings tab‐based navigation to the Sunrise Commander. It adds
to the list of optional mechanisms already available in  Sunrise  for  moving
around  the  file system (like regular bookmarks, checkpoints, history rings,
materialized virtual buffers, navigable paths and file‐following) another way
to  maintain a list of selected locations one wants to return later on, or to
compose \"breadcrumb trails\" for complex repetitive operations.

The  main  difference between tabs and other mechanisms is that once a buffer
has been assigned to a tab, it will not be killed automatically  by  Sunrise,
so  it’s  possible  to keep it around as long as necessary with all its marks
and state untouched.  Tabs can be persisted across sessions using the DeskTop
feature.

Creating, using and destroying tabs are fast and easy operations, either with
mouse or keyboard:

* Press C-j (or select Sunrise > Tabs > Add Tab in the menu) to create a new
tab or to rename an already existing tab.

* Press C-k (or right-click the tab) to kill an existing tab. Combine with M-
(M-C-k) to kill the tab on the passive pane. Prefix with a digit to kill tabs
by relative order (e.g. 2 C-k kills the second tab in the current pane, while
4 M-C-k kills the fourth tab in the passive pane).

*  Press  C‐n and C‐p to move from tab to tab (\"Next\", \"Previous\"), or simply
left‐click on the tab to focus its assigned buffer. These two keybindings can
be prefixed with an integer to move faster.

* The last four bindings can be  combined with Meta (i.e. M‐C‐j, M‐C‐k, M‐C‐n
and M‐C‐p) to  perform the equivalent operation on the  passive pane or (when
in synchronized navigation mode) on both panes simultaneously.

* Press * C-k to kill in one go all the tabs in the current pane.  Similarly,
press * M-C-k to wipe all the tabs off the passive pane or (when synchronized
mode is active) on both panes simultaneously.

*  Killing  the  current  buffer with C‐x k automatically switches to the one
assigned to the first available tab (if any).

The  extension  is  provided  as a minor mode, so you can enable / disable it
totally by issuing the command (M-x) sr-tabs-mode.

It does *not* pretend to be a generic solution for tabs in emacs. If you need
one, have a look at TabBar  mode  (http://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/TabBarMode)
by David Ponce. I wrote this just because it turned out to be easier to write
this than to customize tabbar to behave exactly  like  I  wanted  inside  the
Sunrise  panes.  It’s meant to be simple and to work nicely with Sunrise with
just a few tabs (up to 10‐15 per pane, maybe).

This is version 1 $Rev: 345 $ of the Sunrise Commander Tabs Extension.

It  was  written  on GNU Emacs 23 on Linux, and tested on GNU Emacs 22 and 23
for Linux and on EmacsW32 (version 23) for  Windows.

Installation and Usage:

1) Put this file somewhere in your Emacs load-path.

2)  Add  a (require ’sunrise‐x‐tabs) expression to your .emacs file somewhere
after the (require ’sunrise‐commander) one.

3) Evaluate the new expression, or reload your .emacs file, or restart emacs.

4) Enjoy ;-)")
