(:summary    "Get BibTeX format bibliography entries from the net"
 :updated    "20070425"
 :authors    (("Hans Halvorson (hhalvors -at- princeton -dot- edu)"))
 :maintainer ("Hans Halvorson (hhalvors -at- princeton -dot- edu)")
 :provided   (bibsnarf)
 :required   ((("emacs" bibtex cl mm-url)))
 :commentary "\
This program searches simultaneously through several bibliography
databases, and produces a summary of the results.  You can then
view records (using \"v\"), append records to other buffers (usingz
\"c\"), or append records into local BibTeX files (using \"f\").

As of January 26, 2007, the supported search backends are:

  MathSciNet:   www.ams.org/mathscinet (requires a subscription)
  citebase:     www.citebase.org
  math arxive:  front.math.ucdavis.edu
  spires-hep:   www.slac.stanford.edu/spires/

In theory, it is easy to add any backend for which a single URL 
returns an html page with BibTeX formatted entries.
If you know of any such additional backends, please email the maintainer.

To start a search: M-x bibsnarf RET 
You will then be queried for Author and Title (you need only enter one of the two fields).
If everything goes well, in a few short seconds you will 
find yourself in a buffer that summarizes your results, one line
per result.  The following keybindings apply in the summary buffer:

  v   - view the full BibTeX entry for the record at the point
  SPC - ditto
  RET - ditto
  f   - append the full BibTeX of the record at the point to some local file
        (*CAUTION*: if you have made modifications to the file and have not saved, then you will 
        lose your changes!  For that case, you should instead use \"a\"
  c   - append the full BibTeX of the record at the point to some buffer

 At present, all search results are dumped into a single buffer.  But it would not be diffcult
 to arrange things differently.


Technical discussion: Here is what actually happens after you ask bibsnarf to search:
1. bibsnarf figures out which urls to get
2. bibsnarf calls an external browser (e.g. links) to download the urls.  
   (Why not a native emacs browser, e.g. w3?  For one, w3 is no longer maintained.  
   Second, using an external browser allows us to do asynchronous downloads.  Maybe that is also 
   possible with w3; I don't know.)
3. bibsnarf processes each downloaded html page in two stages: (a) It cleans out the html cruft, 
   hopefully (!) resulting in a valid BibTeX file. (b) It parses the BibTeX file by turning each 
   valid entry into a hash table whose keys are field names and whose values are field contents, and 
   then it makes a big hash table called *bib* whose keys are random, and whose values are the entry 
   hash tables. into a hash table called '*bib*'.  Question: would it be better just to store the entries 
   in a list?  Does hashing provide any advantage ;; in this case?  
4. bibsnarf writes out a summary string for each entry in *bib* in the buffer *bibsnarf results*.


requires an external web client: e.g., links, w3m, lynx

TO DO: use async from url.el

TO DO: add SciTation support, eprintweb.org support

Acknowledgments: Much of the code is inspired by Eric Marsden's
watson.el, and some is borrowed from Nevin Kapur's bibfind.el.")
