(:summary    "Major mode for editing Pop-11 code"
 :created    "1991"
 :updated    "20030826"
 :license    "GPL-2"
 :authors    (("Richard Caley" . "rjc@cstr.ed.ac.uk")
	      ("Brian Logan" . "bsl@cs.bham.ac.uk"))
 :maintainer ("Brian Logan" . "b.s.logan@cs.bham.ac.uk")
 :provided   (pop-mode)
 :required   ((("add-log" add-log)
	       ("cl" cl)
	       ("emacs-core" easymenu font-lock)))
 :keywords   (poplog processes)
 :commentary "\
Pop-11 mode and inferior Pop-11 mode for XEmacs/GNU Eemacs.

        Written by Richard Caley and Brian Logan.

        Flavours information by Angela Marie Gilham.

This code was written to allow Pop-11 development to be done in Emacs
with (almost) as much support as in in Ved.  Specifically it allows
code to be loaded from an emacs buffer into a running Pop-11 and it
allows Poplog documentation to be read from emacs (see pop-help-mode.el).

Note since emacs will only recognise 2 characters as a start of comment
token, pop-mode treats `;;' as the Pop-11 start of  comment character.
I have never seen that in Pop-11 code anywhere other than as a comment
start, but you never know ...  Second, and more significantly, the code
will only understand either PL-I style /*...*/ comments or ';;;' end of
line coments not both.  (This is a limitation of GNU Emacs -- the XEmacs
version of Pop-11 mode does not have this problem).  In general this is
not a problem.  Most people only use one or the other inside procedures.
Set the variable pop-use-pl1-comments as apropriate. I have it off since
I use PL-I style comments only as block comments at file level and
end-of-line comments inside my code.

The indentation code and pop-closeit cope with most pop-11 constructs
I have come across.  Basically they cover my coding style and that used
in code I have to maintain.  Please extend  the lists of keywords and
indentation data to cover more syntax.  Please send any such extensions
to me and I will put them in any new versions.

THINGS TO DO:
Make it understand all of pop syntax (probably impossible on a turing
machine :-(")
