(:summary    "Enhanced window configuration manager"
 :created    "2004"
 :updated    "2004"
 :license    "GPL-2"
 :authors    (("Matthieu Lemerre" . "racin@free.fr"))
 :maintainer ("Matthieu Lemerre" . "racin@free.fr")
 :provided   (task)
 :required   ((("ring" ring))
	      (("ido" ido)
	       ("iswitchb" iswitchb)))
 :keywords   (convenience)
 :homepage   "http://racin.free.fr/old/projects.html#task-mode"
 :wikipage   "http://www.emacswiki.org/TaskMode"
 :commentary "\
Presentation:

task-mode is a global minor mode which enables you to effectively
do many tasks in the same time. For instance, you might want to
edit some Lisp code, then some people on ERC tell you about a bug
in one of your C program, and you proceed on editing some C
code. Every time you switch from these different tasks, your window
configuration will be saved so that you can switch back and forth
without thinking about saving your window configurations in
registers.


There is other packages similar to this one available for emacs, you will
find a list there: http://www.emacswiki.org/cgi-bin/wiki/CategoryWindows.
This package differs from the others because the normal way to
switch from task to task is to switch buffer. Task-mode will
regognize if a buffer is not in the current task and then will
bring the good task.

This method has the following advantages:
* You don't have to remember a task name or number like in other
  packages.
* Switching from task is not attached to a keybinding, so you can
  take advantage of this package with any function which switch
  buffer. (For instance, M-x gnus, erc-track-switch-buffer,
  tla-add-log-entry ...)

It has the following drawback:
* You have to use a keybinding when putting a buffer from a task to
  an other.

Automatically switching of window-configurations is the \"visible\"
part of task-mode. Everything that could benefinit from the fact that
buffers are grouped together has a place in this package. For
instance, in this release is included
task-switch-buffer-within-task-i{do,switch} which enable quick
switching between buffers in a task. 

Installation:

Put task.el in your load-path, and put (require 'task) in your .emacs.
Put (task-mode) in your .emacs if you want task-mode to be
permanently activated, else use M-x task-mode


Configuration:

Use M-x customize-group RET task RET to get an overview of all the
variables you can tweak.  You should read the documentation on my
home page (http://racin.free.fr)

Usage:

See the documentation (task-mode's home page is currently
http://racin.free.fr)

Suggestions:

All suggestions, bug reports, feature requests, critiques, elisp
advices, patches are welcome! (I'm an elisp newbie).  Please mail
to me (racin at free dot fr).

As task-mode is still young, some of the internal structures may
change, so you should write to me if you plan to make an important
contribution, so that we can coordinate our work. I'll then put
this on a free software hosting service like gna! or savannah.

Todo:

*Saving of current point when switching between buffers.

Planned:

* Possibility to merge two tasks in the rules, and interactively
* Better doc on each function
* Strong integration between frames and tasks
* Buffers who can belong to several tasks

Thanks:

All the GNU Project's contributor (and especially Richard Stallman)
for Emacs and the GNU project.

Ivar Rummelhoff for winner-mode (some ideas on
window-configurations handling are inspired by it)


Stefan Reichör and Christophe Garion for their contributions, and
Lucas Bonnet and Gaetan Leurent for testing.")
