(:summary    "Major mode for reading Poplog help documentation.    "
 :created    "1990"
 :updated    "19990902"
 :license    "GPL-2"
 :authors    (("Richard Caley" . "rjc@cstr.ed.ac.uk")
	      ("Brian Logan" . "bsl@cs.bham.ac.uk"))
 :maintainer ("Brian Logan" . "b.s.logan@cs.bham.ac.uk")
 :provided   (pop-help-mode)
 :required   ((("emacs" cl)))
 :keywords   ("poplog")
 :commentary "\
pop-help-mode (was pop-sys-file-mode)
                                                                 
        Richard Caley 1990 and beyond.                           
        Prolog support by Brian Logan.                           
                                                                 
A major mode for reading poplog help documentation.              
                                                                 
By default pop-help-mode creates one buffer for each type of help file
HELP, TEACH etc.  Making pop-help-always-create-buffer non nil creates a
new buffer for each file and it is up to the user to manage the resulting 
buffers.  Like ved, pop-help-mode uses the Poplog searchlists to decide
which directories to search for help files.  This is generally a Good 
Thing but a) it can be slow and b) it won't find help files which are
not in the default seachlists and where the corresponding library hasn't
been loaded.  If you don't like this behaviour, you can set 
pop-help-always-use-defaults to t and redefine the default searchlists in 
your .emacs to include the help directories for the libraries you use.
                                                                 
If pop-help-short-command is set true then the commands M-X help etc. can 
be used to get help rather than M-X pop-help etc.  Nice, but not for non 
poplog people.                        

THINGS TO DO:                                                    
        A ved_?? equivalent would be nice.                       
                                                                 
        Some nice way of _creating_ help files. This would be    
        a mix of pop-sys-file-mode and text-mode. Versions of    
        ved_indexify and ved_header would be nice                
                                                                 

Needed to determine if Pop is running and to communicate with the
inferior pop process.
(require 'inferior-pop-mode)")
