(:summary    "Htmlise a buffer/source tree with optional hyperlinks"
 :created    "20020105"
 :updated    "2011"
 :license    "GPL-3"
 :authors    (("Vivek Dasmohapatra" . "vivek@etla.org"))
 :maintainer ("Vivek Dasmohapatra" . "vivek@etla.org")
 :provided   (hfy-cmap htmlfontify)
 :required   ((("cl" cl)
	       ("cperl-mode" cperl-mode)
	       ("custom" cus-edit custom)
	       ("emacs-core" faces font-lock)))
 :keywords   (etags html hypermedia markup)
 :homepage   "http://rtfm.etla.org/emacs/htmlfontify"
 :wikipage   "http://www.emacswiki.org/HtmlFontify"
 :commentary "\
I have made some changes to make it work for Emacs 22.   A lot of
small bug fixes related to the format of text and overlay
properties (which might have changed since the beginning of 2003
when this file was originally written).

The function `hfy-face-at' currently carries much of the burden of
my lacking understanding of the formats mentioned above and should
need some knowledgeable help.

Another thing that maybe could be fixed is that overlay background
colors which are now only seen where there is text (in the XHTML
output).  A bit of CSS tweaking is necessary there.

The face 'default has a value :background \"SystemWindow\" for the
background color.   There is no explicit notion that this should be
considered transparent, but I have assumed that it could be handled
like if it was here.  (I am unsure that background and foreground
priorities are handled ok, but it looks ok in my tests now.)

2007-12-27 Lennart Borgman


Here's some elisp code to html-pretty-print an Emacs buffer, preserving
the Emacs syntax/whatever highlighting.  It also knows how to drive etags
(exuberant-ctags or Emacs etags) and hyperlink the code according
to its (etags') output.

NOTE: Currently the hyperlinking code only knows how to drive GNU find
and the exuberant and GNU variants of etags : I do not know of any other
etags variants, but mechanisms have been provided to allow htmlfontify
to be taught how to drive them.  As long as your version of find has
the -path test and is reasonably sane, you should be fine.

A sample of the htmlfontified / hyperlinked output of this module can be
found at http://rtfm.etla.org/sql/dbishell/src/ - it's not perfect, but
it's a hell of a lot faster and more thorough than I could hope to be
doing this by hand.

some user / horrified onlooker comments:
What? No! There's something deeply wrong here...   (R. Shufflebotham)
You're a freak.                                    (D. Silverstone)
Aren't we giving you enough to do?                 (J. Busuttil)
You're almost as messed up as Lexx is!             (N. Graves-Morris)")
